---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-12-08 09:36:55 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Cellular adaptation to cancer therapy along a resistance continuum</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Background Drug resistance continues to be a major limiting factor across diverse anti-cancer therapies. Contributing to the complexity of this challenge is cancer plasticity, in which one cancer subtype switches to another in response to treatment, for example, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) to Her2-positive breast cancer. For optimal treatment outcomes, accurate tumor diagnosis and subsequent therapeutic decisions are vital. This study assessed a novel approach to characterize treatment-induced evolutionary changes of distinct tumor cell subpopulations to identify and therapeutically exploit anticancer drug resistance. Methods In this research, an information-theoretic single-cell quantification strategy was developed to provide a high-resolution and individualized assessment of tumor composition for a customized treatment approach. Briefly, this single-cell quantification strategy computes cell barcodes based on at least 100,000 tumor cells from each experiment and reveals a cell-specific signaling signature (CSSS) composed of a set of ongoing processes in each cell. Results Using these CSSS-based barcodes, distinct subpopulations evolving within the tumor in response to an outside influence, like anticancer treatments, were revealed and mapped. Barcodes were further applied to assign targeted drug combinations to each individual tumor to optimize tumor response to therapy. The strategy was validated using TNBC models and patient-derived tumors known to switch phenotypes in response to radiotherapy (RT). Conclusions We show that a barcode-guided targeted drug cocktail significantly enhances tumor response to RT and prevents regrowth of once-resistant tumors. The strategy presented herein shows promise in preventing cancer treatment resistance, with significant applicability in clinical use.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f2bf0e028aa7d79087ee8ee1bf9c6a6ea3815c4" target='_blank'>Computational quantification and characterization of independently evolving cellular subpopulations within tumors is critical to inhibit anti-cancer therapy resistance</a></td>
          <td>
            H. Alkhatib, A. Rubinstein, S. Vasudevan, E. Flashner-Abramson, S. Stefansky, Sangita Roy Chowdhury, S. Oguche, Tamar Peretz-Yablonsky, Avital Granit, Z. Granot, I. Ben-Porath, K. Sheva, Jon Feldman, Noa E. Cohen, A. Meirovitz, N. Kravchenko‐Balasha
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-20</td>
          <td>Genome Medicine</td>
          <td>16</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/763d15c3bfa9d59621b14e79056f68201d678df7" target='_blank'>A model of phenotypic state dynamics initiates a promising approach to control heterogeneous malignant cell populations</a></td>
          <td>
            Margaret P. Chapman, Tyler T. Risom, A. Aswani, Roel Dobbe, R. Sears, C. Tomlin
          </td>
          <td>2016-12-27</td>
          <td>2016 IEEE 55th Conference on Decision and Control (CDC)</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>82</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Understanding tumor cell heterogeneity and plasticity is crucial for overcoming drug resistance. Single-cell technologies enable analyzing cell states at a given condition, but catenating static cell snapshots to characterize dynamic drug responses remains challenging. Here, we propose scStateDynamics, an algorithm to infer tumor cell state dynamics and identify common drug effects by modeling single-cell level gene expression changes. Its reliability is validated on both simulated and lineage tracing data. Application to real tumor drug treatment datasets identifies more subtle cell subclusters with different drug responses beyond static transcriptome similarity and disentangles drug action mechanisms from the cell-level expression changes.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9a7e21f7327e57fd7a5664b9a5fd090102737fcd" target='_blank'>scStateDynamics: deciphering the drug-responsive tumor cell state dynamics by modeling single-cell level expression changes</a></td>
          <td>
            Wenbo Guo, Xinqi Li, Dongfang Wang, Nan Yan, Qifan Hu, Fan Yang, Xuegong Zhang, Jianhua Yao, Jin Gu
          </td>
          <td>2024-11-21</td>
          <td>Genome Biology</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/554119cfe94db8d195c00936a23240ef31a8250e" target='_blank'>Understanding Phenotypic Plasticity Induced by Environmental Factors Using Computational Markov Modeling</a></td>
          <td>
            N. S. Jagannathan, Mario O. Ihsan, X. Kin, M. Clément, L. Tucker-Kellogg
          </td>
          <td>2018-04-01</td>
          <td>The FASEB Journal</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Phenotypic plasticity of cancer cells can lead to complex cell state dynamics during tumor progression and acquired resistance. Highly plastic stem-like states may be inherently drug-resistant. Moreover, cell state dynamics in response to therapy allow a tumor to evade treatment. In both scenarios, quantifying plasticity is essential for identifying high-plasticity states or elucidating transition paths between states. Currently, methods to quantify plasticity tend to focus on 1) quantification of quasi-potential based on the underlying gene regulatory network dynamics of the system; or 2) inference of cell potency based on trajectory inference or lineage tracing in single-cell dynamics. Here, we explore both of these approaches and associated computational tools. We then discuss implications of each approach to plasticity metrics, and relevance to cancer treatment strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/00060c766440bb5c573b31ccd57a8f5bad3b7b7c" target='_blank'>Quantifying cancer cell plasticity with gene regulatory networks and single-cell dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Sarah M. Groves, Vito Quaranta
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-04</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Network Physiology</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cancer is a complex disease involving multiple genomic alterations that disrupt the dynamic response of signaling networks. The heterogeneous nature of cancer, which results in highly variable drug response, is a major obstacle to developing effective cancer therapy. Previous studies of cancer therapeutic response mostly focus on static analysis of genome-wide alterations, thus they are unable to unravel the dynamic, network-specific origin of variation. Here we present a network dynamics-based approach to integrate cancer genomics with dynamics of biological network for drug response prediction and design of drug combination. We select the p53 network as an example and analyze its cancer-specific state transition dynamics under distinct anticancer drug treatments by attractor landscape analysis. Our results not only enable stratification of cancer into distinct drug response groups, but also reveal network-specific drug targets that maximize p53 network-mediated cell death, providing a basis to design combinatorial therapeutic strategies for distinct cancer genomic subtypes. Genomic alterations underlie the variability of drug responses between cancers, but our mechanistic understanding is limited. Here the authors use the p53 network to study how rewiring of signalling networks by genomic alterations impact their dynamic response to pharmacological perturbation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/377f7126d7b8b2631ac0ebbe3b2d1f87e8179879" target='_blank'>Network dynamics-based cancer panel stratification for systemic prediction of anticancer drug response</a></td>
          <td>
            Minsoo Choi, Jue Shi, Yan-ting Zhu, Ruizhen Yang, Kwang-Hyun Cho
          </td>
          <td>2017-12-01</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cancer is a complex disease involving multiple genomic alterations that disrupt the dynamic response of signaling networks. The heterogeneous nature of cancer, which results in highly variable drug response, is a major obstacle to developing effective cancer therapy. Previous studies of cancer therapeutic response mostly focus on static analysis of genome-wide alterations, thus they are unable to unravel the dynamic, network-specific origin of variation. Here we present a network dynamics-based approach to integrate cancer genomics with dynamics of biological network for drug response prediction and design of drug combination. We select the p53 network as an example and analyze its cancer-specific state transition dynamics under distinct anticancer drug treatments by attractor landscape analysis. Our results not only enable stratification of cancer into distinct drug response groups, but also reveal network-specific drug targets that maximize p53 network-mediated cell death, providing a basis to design combinatorial therapeutic strategies for distinct cancer genomic subtypes. Genomic alterations underlie the variability of drug responses between cancers, but our mechanistic understanding is limited. Here the authors use the p53 network to study how rewiring of signalling networks by genomic alterations impact their dynamic response to pharmacological perturbation.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/377f7126d7b8b2631ac0ebbe3b2d1f87e8179879" target='_blank'>Network dynamics-based cancer panel stratification for systemic prediction of anticancer drug response</a></td>
          <td>
            Minsoo Choi, Jue Shi, Yan-ting Zhu, Ruizhen Yang, Kwang-Hyun Cho
          </td>
          <td>2017-12-01</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>46</td>
          <td>45</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Cancer has been a paradigmatic example of a complex disease. It is the second leading cause of death worldwide. Knowledge acquired on the mechanisms and potential causes underlying the origins and progression of cancer from single-scale studies have led to the development of personalized treatments, which in turn have decreasedmortality rates in several types of cancer. However, because it is not a single and isolated disease, but rather a heterogeneous set of multiscale alterations, current research requires computational and systems biology approaches that deal with complex systems on gene regulatory networks. Multi-omics is one of these approaches. Aimed at developing multi-scale mathematical modeling, it allows us to integrate the dynamics of biological perturbations for different types of cancer. Moreover, if tissue/organ-specific path is studied we are able to create mechanistic models for a particular type of the disease. That, combined with current low-cost high throughput technologies have made possible massive cohorts of -omics and clinical data to be publicly available. This immeasurable amount of information promotes harnessing data science approaches for the analysis, integration, and mining of multi-omics data. Large and multidisciplinary groups can now focus on creating models and provide theoretical frameworks that describe cancer in a variety of ways. Besides cancer cell transformation or cancer evolution, currently single cell genomics and spatial single cell transcriptomics is moving forward with deeper understanding of the disease. Also, cancer driver mutations and mutational processes, development of targetspecific treatments have been leading to a prediction of drug responses. Notwithstanding, several challenges that remain to be undertaken such asmechanisms ofmetastasis, resistance to treatment, intra-tumoral heterogeneity, molecular, cellular, and metabolic changes during progression stages, epigenetic modifications, to mention a few. This cross-disciplinary interaction at these levels of description have contributed to develop more efficient models that improve the predictive capacity and ultimately help clinicians and medical scientists in the treatment and therapies. OPEN ACCESS">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/18a5c9568422971ebe3df8c55afef2906c57168e" target='_blank'>Editorial: Cancer systems biology</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Espinal-Enríquez, C. Rangel-Escareño, F. Emmert-Streib
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-18</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>42</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>