---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-10-13 09:31:20 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Extrachromosomal DNA in Cancer.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/64d4438021251d9b711c0baeb201445a5a06e8e0" target='_blank'>Methods, bioinformatics tools and databases in ecDNA research: An overview</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinyu Zhao, Huan Zhao, Yupeng Liu, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Computers in biology and medicine</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The clinical implications of extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) in cancer therapy remain largely elusive. Here, we present a comprehensive analysis of ecDNA amplification spectra and their association with clinical and molecular features in multiple cohorts comprising over 13,000 pan-cancer patients. Using our developed computational framework, GCAP, and validating it with multifaceted approaches, we reveal a consistent pan-cancer pattern of mutual exclusivity between ecDNA amplification and microsatellite instability (MSI). In addition, we establish the role of ecDNA amplification as a risk factor and refine genomic subtypes in a cohort from 1015 colorectal cancer patients. Importantly, our investigation incorporates data from four clinical trials focused on anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, demonstrating the pivotal role of ecDNA amplification as a biomarker for guiding checkpoint blockade immunotherapy in gastrointestinal cancer. This finding represents clinical evidence linking ecDNA amplification to the effectiveness of immunotherapeutic interventions. Overall, our study provides a proof-of-concept of identifying ecDNA amplification from cancer whole-exome sequencing (WES) data, highlighting the potential of ecDNA amplification as a valuable biomarker for facilitating personalized cancer treatment.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0edff12604e8d13a7b581bfb7b7624565745ae39" target='_blank'>Machine learning-based extrachromosomal DNA identification in large-scale cohorts reveals its clinical implications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Shixiang Wang, Chen-Yi Wu, M. He, Jia-Xin Yong, Yanxing Chen, Li-Mei Qian, Jin-Ling Zhang, Zhao-Lei Zeng, Rui-Hua Xu, Feng Wang, Qi Zhao
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-19</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>15</td>
          <td>28</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/99e46744707cddff45ffabea1a5972ff429db150" target='_blank'>Reconstructing the three-dimensional architecture of extrachromosomal DNA with ec3D</a></td>
          <td>
            Biswanath Chowdhury, Kaiyuan Zhu, Chaohui Li, J. Luebeck, Owen S. Chapman, Katerina Kraft, Shu Zhang, Lukas Chavez, A. Henssen, P. Mischel, Howard Y. Chang, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2025-05-19</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>74</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Human extrachromosomal circular DNA, or eccDNA, has been the topic of extensive investigation in the last decade due to its prominent regulatory role in the development of disorders including cancer. With the rapid advancement of experimental, sequencing and computational technology, millions of eccDNA records are now accessible. Unfortunately, the literature and databases only provide snippets of this information, preventing us from fully understanding eccDNAs. Researchers frequently struggle with the process of selecting algorithms and tools to examine eccDNAs of interest. To explain the underlying formation mechanisms of the five basic classes of eccDNAs, we categorized their characteristics and functions and summarized eight biogenesis theories. Most significantly, we created a clear procedure to help in the selection of suitable techniques and tools and thoroughly examined the most recent experimental and bioinformatics methodologies and data resources for identifying, measuring and analyzing eccDNA sequences. In conclusion, we highlighted the current obstacles and prospective paths for eccDNA research, specifically discussing their probable uses in molecular diagnostics and clinical prediction, with an emphasis on the potential contribution of novel computational strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d9aa37feb6fb39004b376ecfc6a5df4bc099002f" target='_blank'>Characterization, biogenesis model, and current bioinformatics of human extrachromosomal circular DNA</a></td>
          <td>
            Lina Zhou, Wenyi Tang, Bo Ye, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-29</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdf251e653d85e2d3fa3eb31d13a78d3467c5985" target='_blank'>Bioinformatics advances in eccDNA identification and analysis.</a></td>
          <td>
            Fuyu Li, Wenlong Ming, Wenxiang Lu, Ying Wang, Xianjun Dong, Yunfei Bai
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-29</td>
          <td>Oncogene</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>29</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="In cancer, extrachromosomal circular DNA (ecDNA), or megabase-pair amplified circular DNA, plays an essential role in intercellular heterogeneity and tumor cell revolution because of its non-Mendelian inheritance. We developed circlehunter ( https://github.com/suda-huanglab/circlehunter ), a tool for identifying ecDNA from ATAC-Seq data using the enhanced chromatin accessibility of ecDNA. Using simulated data, we showed that circlehunter has an F1 score of 0.93 at 30× local depth and read lengths as short as 35 bp. Based on 1312 ecDNAs predicted from 94 publicly available datasets of ATAC-Seq assays, we found 37 oncogenes contained in these ecDNAs with amplification characteristics. In small cell lung cancer cell lines, ecDNA containing MYC leads to amplification of MYC and cis-regulates the expression of NEUROD1 , resulting in an expression pattern consistent with the NEUROD1 high expression subtype and sensitive to Aurora kinase inhibitors. This showcases that circlehunter could serve as a valuable pipeline for the investigation of tumorigenesis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b270d5828c0c647a81a5f5624151881c87a6d379" target='_blank'>Circlehunter: a tool to identify extrachromosomal circular DNA from ATAC-Seq data</a></td>
          <td>
            Manqiu Yang, Shufan Zhang, Rong Jiang, Shaomu Chen, Moli Huang
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-22</td>
          <td>Oncogenesis</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Rapid advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies have led to the discovery of thousands of extrachromosomal circular DNAs (eccDNAs) in the human genome. Loss-of-function experiments are difficult to conduct on circular and linear chromosomes, as they usually overlap. Hence, it is challenging to interpret the molecular functions of eccDNAs. Here, we present CircleBase (http://circlebase.maolab.org), an integrated resource and analysis platform used to curate and interpret eccDNAs in multiple cell types. CircleBase identifies putative functional eccDNAs by incorporating sequencing datasets, computational predictions, and manual annotations. It classifies them into six sections including targeting genes, epigenetic regulations, regulatory elements, chromatin accessibility, chromatin interactions, and genetic variants. The eccDNA targeting and regulatory networks are displayed by informative visualization tools and then prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that the top-ranked cancer cell eccDNAs were enriched in oncogenic pathways such as the Ras and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. In contrast, eccDNAs from healthy individuals were not significantly enriched. CircleBase provides a user-friendly interface for searching, browsing, and analyzing eccDNAs in various cell/tissue types. Thus, it is useful to screen for potential functional eccDNAs and interpret their molecular mechanisms in human cancers and other diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11549f6d4ae6a2335535bd365c4dad50eea05f4a" target='_blank'>CircleBase: an integrated resource and analysis platform for human eccDNAs</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiaolu Zhao, Leisheng Shi, Shasha Ruan, W. Bi, Yifan Chen, Lin Chen, Yifan Liu, MingKun Li, J. Qiao, Fengbiao Mao
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-18</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>23</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Oncogene amplification, a major driver of cancer pathogenicity, is often mediated through focal amplification of genomic segments. Recent results implicate extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) as the primary mechanism driving focal copy number amplification (fCNA) - enabling gene amplification, rapid tumor evolution, and the rewiring of regulatory circuitry. Resolving an fCNA’s structure is a first step in deciphering the mechanisms of its genesis and the subsequent biological consequences. Here, we introduce a powerful new computational method, AmpliconReconstructor (AR), for integrating optical mapping (OM) of long DNA fragments (>150kb) with next-generation sequencing (NGS) to resolve fCNAs at single-nucleotide resolution. AR uses an NGS-derived breakpoint graph alongside OM scaffolds to produce high-fidelity reconstructions. After validating performance by extensive simulations, we used AR to reconstruct fCNAs in seven cancer cell lines to reveal the complex architecture of ecDNA, breakage-fusion-bridge cycles, and other complex rearrangements. By distinguishing between chromosomal and extrachromosomal origins, and by reconstructing the rearrangement signatures associated with a given fCNA’s generative mechanism, AR enables a more thorough understanding of the origins of fCNAs, and their functional consequences.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e28a4561b57e335c34ee371c948fa26b8b381895" target='_blank'>AmpliconReconstructor: Integrated analysis of NGS and optical mapping resolves the complex structures of focal amplifications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Luebeck, C. Coruh, S. R. Dehkordi, Joshua T. Lange, Kristen M. Turner, Viraj Deshpande, Dave A. Pai, Chao Zhang, Utkrisht Rajkumar, Julie A. Law, P. Mischel, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>105</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/807670030fcdcd4d1e09df57ab926e3510f882f2" target='_blank'>EccBase: A high-quality database for exploration and characterization of extrachromosomal circular DNAs in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Haiyang Sun, Xinyi Lu, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>14</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) are circular, megabase-scale regions of the genome found outside canonical chromosomes and characterized by high copy-number and frequent oncogene amplification. They are implicated in tumorigenesis, therapeutic resistance, and shortened survival for patients across multiple cancer types. Existing tools to identify and predict ecDNA structures are limited to low throughput, high sensitivity enrichment-based assays or high throughput, low sensitivity computational methods using whole-genome sequencing data. Recent advances in long-read sequencing offer potential improvements in ecDNA detection but such data are currently limited. Evaluating the impact of ecDNA in relation to clinical characteristics requires large cohorts such as The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) or the International Cancer Genome Consortium (ICGC). Hence, there is value in leveraging short-read sequencing data from these existing cohorts while improving confidence in computational predictions of ecDNA presence and structure. Here we present ecDNAInspector, a computational tool that enables systematic selection of high-confidence ecDNA predictions from sequencing data. Each ecDNA prediction is characterized using structure-based metrics: an extreme cycle size Boolean, a breakpoint mapping error Boolean, and adapted classification metrics that assess the frequency of paired ends between neighboring cycle segments with orthogonal structural variant call support. ecDNA predictions are clustered by these metrics and the user can select high-confidence groups. A subsequent filtering step enables rescue of additional ecDNA predictions based on user-defined thresholds. After selection of a final high-confidence group of ecDNA predictions, ecDNAInspector offers modules for structural comparison and analysis of ecDNA within a cohort, including inspection of structural conservation (i.e. maintenance of similar sequence) and feature comparisons across tumors. Applying ecDNAInspector to a breast cancer cohort, we nominated a subset of high-confidence ecDNA with strong orthogonal structural variant support and additional indicators of high quality. We identified both base pair and oncogene inclusion conservation within breast cancer subtype groups, and noted significant variations in structural metrics across subtype groups. Since structure often indicates origin and dictates function, these differences suggest potential biological differences in ecDNA genesis and evolution across breast cancer subtypes. Thus, ecDNAInspector provides a systematic method for selecting high-confidence ecDNA predictions for downstream structural analysis, enabling improved utilization of existing sequencing data in valuable clinical cohorts.
 
 
 Sophia J. Pribus, Kathleen E. Houlahan, Lise Mangiante, Christina Curtis. ecDNAInspector nominates high-confidence structural predictions of extrachromosomal DNA for downstream analysis [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2025; Part 1 (Regular Abstracts); 2025 Apr 25-30; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2025;85(8_Suppl_1):Abstract nr 3754.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d7bed6325a16795853f9398ff50f536009080006" target='_blank'>Abstract 3754: ecDNAInspector nominates high-confidence structural predictions of extrachromosomal DNA for downstream analysis</a></td>
          <td>
            Sophia Pribus, Kathleen E. Houlahan, Lise Mangiante, Christina Curtis
          </td>
          <td>2025-04-21</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>18</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>