---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-01-13 09:26:38 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Chromothripsis drives the evolution of gene amplification in cancer</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Chromosomal instability (CIN) is pervasive in human tumours and often leads to structural or numerical chromosomal aberrations. Somatic structural variants (SVs) are intimately related to copy number alterations but the two types of variant are often studied independently. In addition, despite numerous studies on detecting various SV patterns, there are still no general quantitative models of SV generation. To address this issue, we develop a computational cell-cycle model for the generation of SVs from end-joining repair and replication after double strand break formation. Our model provides quantitative information on the relationship between breakage fusion bridge cycle, chromothripsis, seismic amplification, and extra-chromosomal circular DNA. Given single-cell whole-genome sequencing data, the model also allows us to infer important parameters in SV generation with Bayesian inference. Our quantitative framework unifies disparate genomic patterns resulted from CIN, provides a null mutational model for SV, and reveals new insights into the impact of genome rearrangement on tumour evolution.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/88d37995794338f9758a7ed6b07381c7a9569203" target='_blank'>Cell-cycle dependent DNA repair and replication unifies patterns of chromosome instability</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Lu, Samuel Winnall, William Cross, C. P. Barnes
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-04</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Traditional drug discovery efforts have largely focused on targeting rapid, reversible protein-mediated adaptations to undermine cancer cells’ resistance to therapy. However, cancer cells also exploit DNA-based strategies, typically viewed as slow, irreversible, and unpredictable changes like point mutations or the selection of drug-resistant clones. Contrary to this perception, extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) represents a form of DNA alteration that is rapid, reversible, and predictable, playing a crucial role in cancer’s adaptive response. In this study, we present a novel post-processing pipeline for the automated detection and quantification of ecDNA in Fluorescence in situ Hybridization (FISH) images using the Microscopy Image Analyzer (MIA) tool. Our approach is particularly designed to monitor ecDNA dynamics during drug treatment, providing a quantitative framework to understand how ecDNA enables cancer cells to swiftly and reversibly adapt to therapeutic pressure. This pipeline not only offers a valuable resource for researchers aiming to automate ecDNA detection in FISH images but also sheds light on the adaptive mechanisms of ecDNA in response to epigenetic remodeling agents like JQ1.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/9a33656032abe4b14c89c4da5e33bf1e9ab825af" target='_blank'>Leveraging AI to Automate Detection and Quantification of Extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) to Decode Drug Responses</a></td>
          <td>
            Kohen Goble, Aarav Mehta, Damien Guilbaud, Jacob Fessler, Jingting Chen, William Nenad, Oliver Cope, Darby Cheng, William Dennis, Nithya Gurumurthy, Yue Wang, Kriti Shukla, Elizabeth Brunk
          </td>
          <td>2024-10-27</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chromosomal instability results in widespread structural and numerical chromosomal abnormalities (CAs) during cancer evolution1–3. While CAs have been linked to mitotic errors resulting in the emergence of nuclear atypias4–7, the underlying processes and basal rates of spontaneous CA formation in human cells remain under-explored. Here we introduce machine learning-assisted genomics-and-imaging convergence (MAGIC), an autonomously operated platform that integrates automated live-cell imaging of micronucleated cells, machine learning in real-time, and single-cell genomics to investigate de novo CA formation at scale. Applying MAGIC to near-diploid, non-transformed cell lines, we track CA events over successive cell cycles, highlighting the common role of dicentric chromosomes as an initiating event. We determine the baseline CA rate, which approximately doubles in TP53-deficient cells, and show that chromosome losses arise more rapidly than gains. The targeted induction of DNA double-strand breaks along chromosomes triggers distinct CA processes, revealing stable isochromosomes, amplification and coordinated segregation of isoacentric segments in multiples of two, and complex CA outcomes, depending on the break location. Our data contrast de novo CA spectra from somatic mutational landscapes after selection occurred. The large-scale experimentation enabled by MAGIC provides insights into de novo CA formation, paving the way to unravel fundamental determinants of chromosome instability.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a12d3e51de5c9c53670001797534816b7eeca397" target='_blank'>Origins of de novo chromosome rearrangements unveiled by coupled imaging and genomics</a></td>
          <td>
            M. R. Cosenza, Alice Gaiatto, Büşra Erarslan Uysal, Álvaro Andrades Delgado, Nina Luisa Sautter, M. Jendrusch, Sonia Zumalave Duro, Tobias Rausch, A. Halavatyi, Eva-Maria Geissen, Patrick Hasenfeld, I. Cortés-Ciriano, Andreas Kulozik, Rainer Pepperkok, J. Korbel
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-17</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>97</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/011a2249b621cc7d1fcd6a351602cdf74d89acdb" target='_blank'>Starfish infers signatures of complex genomic rearrangements across human cancers</a></td>
          <td>
            Lisui Bao, Xiaoming Zhong, Yang Yang, Lixing Yang
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-14</td>
          <td>Nature Cancer</td>
          <td>21</td>
          <td>44</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Oncogene amplification, a major driver of cancer pathogenicity, is often mediated through focal amplification of genomic segments. Recent results implicate extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) as the primary mechanism driving focal copy number amplification (fCNA) - enabling gene amplification, rapid tumor evolution, and the rewiring of regulatory circuitry. Resolving an fCNA’s structure is a first step in deciphering the mechanisms of its genesis and the subsequent biological consequences. Here, we introduce a powerful new computational method, AmpliconReconstructor (AR), for integrating optical mapping (OM) of long DNA fragments (>150kb) with next-generation sequencing (NGS) to resolve fCNAs at single-nucleotide resolution. AR uses an NGS-derived breakpoint graph alongside OM scaffolds to produce high-fidelity reconstructions. After validating performance by extensive simulations, we used AR to reconstruct fCNAs in seven cancer cell lines to reveal the complex architecture of ecDNA, breakage-fusion-bridge cycles, and other complex rearrangements. By distinguishing between chromosomal and extrachromosomal origins, and by reconstructing the rearrangement signatures associated with a given fCNA’s generative mechanism, AR enables a more thorough understanding of the origins of fCNAs, and their functional consequences.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e28a4561b57e335c34ee371c948fa26b8b381895" target='_blank'>AmpliconReconstructor: Integrated analysis of NGS and optical mapping resolves the complex structures of focal amplifications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Luebeck, C. Coruh, S. R. Dehkordi, Joshua T. Lange, Kristen M. Turner, Viraj Deshpande, Dave A. Pai, Chao Zhang, Utkrisht Rajkumar, Julie A. Law, P. Mischel, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>103</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The traditional view of cancer evolution states that a cancer genome accumulates a sequential ordering of mutations over a long period of time. However, in recent years it has been suggested that a cancer genome may instead undergo a one-time catastrophic event, such as chromothripsis, where a large number of mutations instead occur simultaneously. A number of potential signatures of chromothripsis have been proposed. In this work we provide a rigorous formulation and analysis of the “ability to walk the derivative chromosome” signature originally proposed by Korbel and Campbell (2013). In particular, we show that this signature, as originally envisioned, may not always be present in a chromothripsis genome and we provide a precise quantification of under what circumstances it would be present. We also propose a variation on this signature, the H/T alternating fraction, which allows us to overcome some of the limitations of the original signature. We apply our measure to both simulated data and a previously analyzed real cancer dataset and find that the H/T alternating fraction may provide useful signal for distinguishing genomes having acquired mutations simultaneously from those acquired in a sequential fashion. An implementation of the H/T alternating fraction is available at https://bitbucket.org/oesperlab/ht-altfrac.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/93ee3528342788b731d4ee5e089b64e1d1df4122" target='_blank'>Identifying simultaneous rearrangements in cancer genomes</a></td>
          <td>
            Layla Oesper, S. Dantas, Benjamin J. Raphael
          </td>
          <td>2017-07-26</td>
          <td>Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>65</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Genomes mutate and evolve in ways simple (substitution or deletion of bases) and complex (e.g. chromosome shattering). We do not fully understand what types of complex mutation occur, and we cannot routinely characterize arbitrarily-complex mutations in a high-throughput, genome-wide manner. Long-read DNA sequencing methods (e.g. PacBio, nanopore) are promising for this task, because one read may encompass a whole complex mutation. We describe an analysis pipeline to characterize arbitrarily-complex ‘local’ mutations, i.e. intrachromosomal mutations encompassed by one DNA read. We apply it to nanopore and PacBio reads from one human cell line (NA12878), and survey sequence rearrangements, both real and artifactual. Almost all the real rearrangements belong to recurring patterns or motifs: the most common is tandem multiplication (e.g. heptuplication), but there are also complex patterns such as localized shattering, which resembles DNA damage by radiation. Gene conversions are identified, including one between hemoglobin gamma genes. This study demonstrates a way to find intricate rearrangements with any number of duplications, deletions, and repositionings. It demonstrates a probability-based method to resolve ambiguous rearrangements involving highly similar sequences, as occurs in gene conversion. We present a catalog of local rearrangements in one human cell line, and show which rearrangement patterns occur.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/6b913c0fa64d62b116a38e6432118cedf5fbd602" target='_blank'>A survey of localized sequence rearrangements in human DNA</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Frith, Sofia Khan
          </td>
          <td>2017-12-19</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Genomes mutate and evolve in ways simple (substitution or deletion of bases) and complex (e.g. chromosome shattering). We do not fully understand what types of complex mutation occur, and we cannot routinely characterize arbitrarily-complex mutations in a high-throughput, genome-wide manner. Long-read DNA sequencing methods (e.g. PacBio, nanopore) are promising for this task, because one read may encompass a whole complex mutation. We describe an analysis pipeline to characterize arbitrarily-complex “local” mutations, i.e. intrachromosomal mutations encompassed by one DNA read. We apply it to nanopore and PacBio reads from one human cell line (NA12878), and survey sequence rearrangements, both real and artifactual. Almost all the real rearrangements belong to recurring patterns or motifs: the most common is tandem multiplication (e.g. heptuplication), but there are also complex patterns such as localized shattering, which resembles DNA damage by radiation. Gene conversions are identified, including one between hemoglobin gamma genes. This study demonstrates a way to find intricate rearrangements with any number of duplications, deletions, and repositionings. It demonstrates a probability-based method to resolve ambiguous rearrangements involving highly similar sequences, as occurs in gene conversion. We present a catalog of local rearrangements in one human cell line, and show which rearrangement patterns occur.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b4d30e28a0875939246fb9dd82670af95bdd6835" target='_blank'>A bestiary of localized sequence rearrangements in human DNA</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Frith, Sofia Khan
          </td>
          <td>2017-08-14</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>47</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ffe659e0001f59efd1d4924d1559cee126080ae5" target='_blank'>AmpliconReconstructor integrates NGS and optical mapping to resolve the complex structures of focal amplifications</a></td>
          <td>
            J. Luebeck, C. Coruh, S. R. Dehkordi, Joshua T. Lange, Kristen M. Turner, Viraj Deshpande, Dave A. Pai, Chao Zhang, Utkrisht Rajkumar, Julie A. Law, P. Mischel, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2020-09-01</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>57</td>
          <td>103</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>