---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-03-03 09:27:43 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Extrachromosomal DNA: An Emerging Hallmark in Human Cancer.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/64d4438021251d9b711c0baeb201445a5a06e8e0" target='_blank'>Methods, bioinformatics tools and databases in ecDNA research: An overview</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinyu Zhao, Huan Zhao, Yupeng Liu, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Computers in biology and medicine</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) represents a large category of nonmitochondrial and nonplasmid circular extrachromosomal DNA playing an indispensable role in various aspects such as tumorigenesis, immune responses, liquid biopsy, etc. However, characteristic and functions of eccDNA are fragmented, hiding behind abundant literatures and massive whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data, which have not been sufficiently used for identification of eccDNAs. Therefore, establishing an integrated repository portal is essential for identifying and analyzing eccDNAs. Here, we developed eccDNA Atlas (http://lcbb.swjtu.edu.cn/eccDNAatlas), a user-friendly database of eccDNAs that aims to provide a high-quality and integrated resource for browsing, searching and analyzing eccDNAs from multiple species. eccDNA Atlas currently containing 630,434 eccDNAs and 7,774 ecDNAs manually curated from literatures and 1,105 ecDNAs predicted by AmpliconArchitect based on WGS data involved in 66 diseases, 57 tissue and 319 cell lines. The content of each eccDNA entry included multiple aspects such as sequence, disease, function, characteristic, validation strategies, etc. Furthermore, abundant annotations and analyzing utilities were provided to explore existed eccDNAs in eccDNA Atlas or user-defined eccDNAs including oncogenes, typical enhancers, super enhancers, gene expression, survival, and genome visualization. Based on these resources, eccDNA Atlas will significantly improve our understanding of eccDNAs and serve as an important catalyst for future research of eccDNAs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e2d20a0db9b1f98cad436777c673672c6524a862" target='_blank'>eccDNA Atlas: a comprehensive resource of eccDNA catalog</a></td>
          <td>
            Tengwei Zhong, Wenqing Wang, Houyan Liu, Mao-Hua Zeng, Xinyu Zhao, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-08</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>17</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Human extrachromosomal circular DNA, or eccDNA, has been the topic of extensive investigation in the last decade due to its prominent regulatory role in the development of disorders including cancer. With the rapid advancement of experimental, sequencing and computational technology, millions of eccDNA records are now accessible. Unfortunately, the literature and databases only provide snippets of this information, preventing us from fully understanding eccDNAs. Researchers frequently struggle with the process of selecting algorithms and tools to examine eccDNAs of interest. To explain the underlying formation mechanisms of the five basic classes of eccDNAs, we categorized their characteristics and functions and summarized eight biogenesis theories. Most significantly, we created a clear procedure to help in the selection of suitable techniques and tools and thoroughly examined the most recent experimental and bioinformatics methodologies and data resources for identifying, measuring and analyzing eccDNA sequences. In conclusion, we highlighted the current obstacles and prospective paths for eccDNA research, specifically discussing their probable uses in molecular diagnostics and clinical prediction, with an emphasis on the potential contribution of novel computational strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d9aa37feb6fb39004b376ecfc6a5df4bc099002f" target='_blank'>Characterization, biogenesis model, and current bioinformatics of human extrachromosomal circular DNA</a></td>
          <td>
            Lina Zhou, Wenyi Tang, Bo Ye, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-29</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/807670030fcdcd4d1e09df57ab926e3510f882f2" target='_blank'>EccBase: A high-quality database for exploration and characterization of extrachromosomal circular DNAs in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Haiyang Sun, Xinyi Lu, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>9</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b270d5828c0c647a81a5f5624151881c87a6d379" target='_blank'>Circlehunter: a tool to identify extrachromosomal circular DNA from ATAC-Seq data</a></td>
          <td>
            Manqiu Yang, Shufan Zhang, Rong Jiang, Shaomu Chen, Moli Huang
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-22</td>
          <td>Oncogenesis</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Rapid advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies have led to the discovery of thousands of extrachromosomal circular DNAs (eccDNAs) in the human genome. Loss-of-function experiments are difficult to conduct on circular and linear chromosomes, as they usually overlap. Hence, it is challenging to interpret the molecular functions of eccDNAs. Here, we present CircleBase (http://circlebase.maolab.org), an integrated resource and analysis platform used to curate and interpret eccDNAs in multiple cell types. CircleBase identifies putative functional eccDNAs by incorporating sequencing datasets, computational predictions, and manual annotations. It classifies them into six sections including targeting genes, epigenetic regulations, regulatory elements, chromatin accessibility, chromatin interactions, and genetic variants. The eccDNA targeting and regulatory networks are displayed by informative visualization tools and then prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that the top-ranked cancer cell eccDNAs were enriched in oncogenic pathways such as the Ras and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. In contrast, eccDNAs from healthy individuals were not significantly enriched. CircleBase provides a user-friendly interface for searching, browsing, and analyzing eccDNAs in various cell/tissue types. Thus, it is useful to screen for potential functional eccDNAs and interpret their molecular mechanisms in human cancers and other diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11549f6d4ae6a2335535bd365c4dad50eea05f4a" target='_blank'>CircleBase: an integrated resource and analysis platform for human eccDNAs</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiaolu Zhao, Leisheng Shi, Shasha Ruan, W. Bi, Yifan Chen, Lin Chen, Yifan Liu, Mingkun Li, J. Qiao, Fengbiao Mao
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-18</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cdf251e653d85e2d3fa3eb31d13a78d3467c5985" target='_blank'>Bioinformatics advances in eccDNA identification and analysis.</a></td>
          <td>
            Fuyu Li, Wenlong Ming, Wenxiang Lu, Ying Wang, Xianjun Dong, Yunfei Bai
          </td>
          <td>2024-08-29</td>
          <td>Oncogene</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>27</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0edff12604e8d13a7b581bfb7b7624565745ae39" target='_blank'>Machine learning-based extrachromosomal DNA identification in large-scale cohorts reveals its clinical implications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Shixiang Wang, Chen-Yi Wu, M. He, Jia-Xin Yong, Yanxing Chen, Li-Mei Qian, Jin-Ling Zhang, Zhao-Lei Zeng, Rui-Hua Xu, Feng Wang, Qi Zhao
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-19</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>5</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extrachromosomal DNAs (ecDNAs) are large, acentric, circular DNA molecules that occur pervasively across many human cancers. EcDNA can drive tumor formation and evolution, contribute to drug resistance, and associate with poor patient survival outcomes. Beyond mediating high copy numbers, the circular topology and dynamic conformational changes of ecDNA disrupt topological domains and rewire regulatory networks, thereby conferring an important role in the transcriptional regulation of oncogenes. Here, we develop ec3D, a computational method for reconstructing the three-dimensional structures of ecDNA and analyzing significant interactions from high-throughput chromatin capture (Hi-C) data. Given a candidate ecDNA sequence and the corresponding whole-genome Hi-C as input, ec3D reconstructs the spatial structure of ecDNA by maximizing the Poisson likelihood of observed interactions. Ec3D’s performance was validated using both simulated ecDNA structures with varying conformations, and Hi-C data from previously-characterized cancer cell lines. Our reconstructions reveal that ecDNAs occupy spherical configurations and mediate unique long-range interactions involved in gene regulation. Through algorithmic innovations, ec3D can resolve complex ecDNA structures with duplicated copies of large genomic segments, identify multi-way interactions, distinguish between interactions arising from direct spatial proximity and secondary interactions resulting from alternative folding patterns or intermolecular (trans) contacts of ecDNA molecules. Our findings provide insights into how the spatial organization of ecDNA may influence gene regulation and contribute to increased oncogene expression. Code availability https://github.com/AmpliconSuite/ec3D">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/aebb6e832c80fde421190f885801636b3438e629" target='_blank'>Reconstructing the three-dimensional architecture of extrachro-mosomal DNA with ec3D</a></td>
          <td>
            Biswanath Chowdhury, Kaiyuan Zhu, Chaohui Li, J. Luebeck, Owen S. Chapman, Katerina Kraft, Shu Zhang, Lukas Chavez, A. Henssen, P. Mischel, Howard Y. Chang, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2025-02-06</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>71</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The role of extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) has been highlighted. More recently, eccDNA-chromosome interactions were identified, suggesting a potential role of eccDNA in transcriptional regulation. Several databases currently provide valuable resources for the study of eccDNAs. However, these databases are primarily focused on Human eccDNAs and do not provide analysis of eccDNA-chromosome interaction and eccDNA gene expression in different tissues. Herein, to further integrate available resources for eccDNA data across multiple species, we developed the eccDB database. The current version of eccDB has collected a total of 1,317,182 eccDNAs in 424 samples from four species (homo sapiens, mus musculus, saccharomyces cerevisiae, and arabidopsis thaliana). eccDB provides regulatory and epigenetic information on eccDNA, including typical enhancers, super-enhancers, transcription factors, DNA methylation positions, risk SNPs, expression quantitative trait locus, chromatin accessibility regions, and chromHMM states. In particular, eccDB provides eccDNAs intrachromosomal and interchromosomal interaction analysis to predict the transcriptional regulatory functions of eccDNA. Moreover, eccDB identifies eccDNAs from unknown DNA sequences and analyzes the functional and evolutionary relationships of an eccDNA among different species. Overall, eccDB offers web-based analytical tools and a comprehensive resource for biologists and clinicians to decipher the molecular regulatory mechanisms of eccDNA. eccDB is freely available at http://www.xiejjlab.bio/eccDB">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e0a342b5e252ecb1e48f975fdd5e8efa46835895" target='_blank'>eccDB: a comprehensive repository for eccDNA-mediated chromatin contacts in multi-species</a></td>
          <td>
            Min Yang, Bo Qiu, Guo-You He, Jianyuan Zhou, Haoming Yu, Yuying Zhang, Yanshang Li, Taisong Li, Jinping Guo, Xuecang Li, Jianjun Xie
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>