---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2025-08-11 09:34:58 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Spatial epitope barcoding reveals subclonal tumor patch behaviors</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Understanding the spatial distribution of cancer cells and how they interact with other cell types in the tumor microenvironment (TME) is crucial to elucidate the mechanisms of cancer development and progression. The identification of cell types in the TME relies on the distinct expression profiles of different cell types. Compared to sequencing-based spatial transcriptomics analysis, multiplex nucleic acid in-situ hybridization (ISH) at a single-molecule level is more focused and cost-effective. Based on ISH technology, RNAscope developed novel approaches to detect multiple gene expression profiles on tissue sections at a single-molecule level. It is highly sensitive and specific and can simultaneously quantify gene expression at sub-cellular levels. Although the technology has been applied to study spatial gene expression in various cancer types, few have applied it to elucidate the association between different markers in different cell compartments within the TME.This protocol describes an image analysis pipeline for multiplex fluorescent signals detected by RNAscope technology. It was developed based on a previous CellProfiler pipeline, facilitating spatial expression analyses across different cell compartments through a flexible, user-friendly interface for non-computational biologists. We describe specific steps to analyze the expression and spatial arrangement of four endogenous housekeeping genes as quality controls (QCs): POLR2A, PPIB, HPRT1, and UBC. We further apply these pipelines to analyze target genes in breast cancer samples, comparing those with and without skin metastasis. The analyses were demonstrated in one sample each using formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue (FFPET) and fresh-frozen tissue (FFT) sections with the ISH steps followed the manufacturer’s protocol.
 
 
 Meng-Shin Shiao, Natini Jinawath, Katherine Copeland, Ariestya Indah Permata Sari. A CellProfiler pipeline for RNAscope analyzing multiple markers across adjacent tissue sections spatially [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2025; Part 1 (Regular Abstracts); 2025 Apr 25-30; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2025;85(8_Suppl_1):Abstract nr 6302.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/16fe30c659d6f8c68794471b6bb6c1c23bb6c9f4" target='_blank'>Abstract 6302: A CellProfiler pipeline for RNAscope analyzing multiple markers across adjacent tissue sections spatially</a></td>
          <td>
            M. Shiao, N. Jinawath, Katherine Copeland, Ariestya Indah Permata Sari
          </td>
          <td>2025-04-21</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) recapitulate intratumoral spatial heterogeneity and simulate a tumor microenvironment in which human immune and stromal cells in the PDX are replaced over passages by murine cells partially lacking immune function. Histological imaging enables exploring the spatial heterogeneity and dynamics of cancer, stromal, and immune cell interactions as correlates of tumor stage and therapeutic response over passages. We created a repository of curated, haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) images as a community resource for addressing these questions.
 Images were generated at five sites within the NCI’s PDX Development and Trial Centers Research Network (PDXNet) and the NCI Patient-Derived Models Repository. Over 900 images, including 739 from PDXs and 190 from paired patients, are hosted on the Seven Bridges Genomics Cancer Genomics Cloud. They represent 42 cancer subtypes, including breast cancer (n=134), colon adenocarcinoma (COAD; n=94), pancreatic cancer (n=87), lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD; n=80), melanoma (n=71), and squamous cell lung cancer (LUSC; n=65). Paired human/PDX images are available for each of these cancers. Human and/or PDX images generated following patient treatment are available for 37 of the subtypes. Most images are from early passages (P0: 158; P1: 292; P2: 152; P3: 69; >P3: 55). Annotations include sex, age, race, ethnicity, and, for most images, pathological assessment of tissue-level percent cancer, stromal, and necrotic cell content (n=639) and tumor stage (n=650). RNA and exome sequencing data are available for 99 and 228 images, respectively, matched at the patient or sample level.
 Quality control was performed using HistoQC. Cells were segmented and labeled as neoplastic, necrotic, immune, stromal, or other using Hover-Net and predictions of total neoplastic cell area correlated with whole-slide pathological assessment of cancer cell percentage (COAD: r=0.51; LUSC: r=0.59). HD-Staining, another classification approach, was applied to a subset of images and our clinical annotations will facilitate validation of this and related methods. Features of 512 x 512 pixel tiles were computed using the Inception V3 convolutional neural network pre-trained on ImageNet. Unsupervised clustering of these features demonstrate inter-patient heterogeneity within pathologist-annotated tumor regions. A classifier developed using pathologist-annotated cancer, stromal, and necrotic regions and trained on the features in LUSC images (n=10 images) achieved a cross-validation accuracy of 96% for cancer tiles across (n=5) LUAD images. Accuracy was lower for stromal classification (90%), likely reflecting current limitations of our small, but growing, labeled training set.
 Our repository of clinically-annotated PDX H&E images should aid the community in studying spatial heterogeneity and in training deep learning-based image analysis methods.
 Citation Format: Brian S. White, Xingyi Woo, Soner Koc, Todd Sheridan, Steven B. Neuhauser, Akshat M. Savaliya, Lacey E. Dobrolecki, John D. Landua, Matthew H. Bailey, Maihi Fujita, Kurt W. Evans, Bingliang Fang, Junya Fujimoto, Maria Gabriela Raso, Shidan Wang, Guanghua Xiao, Yang Xie, Sherri R. Davies, Ryan C. Fields, R Jay Mashl, Jacqueline L. Mudd, Yeqing Chen, Min Xiao, Xiaowei Xu, Melinda G. Hollingshead, Shahanawaz Jiwani, PDXNet Consortium, Yvonne A. Evrard, Tiffany A. Wallace, Jeffrey A. Moscow, James H. Doroshow, Nicholas Mitsiades, Salma Kaochar, Chong-xian Pan, Moon S. Chen, Luis G. Carvajal-Carmona, Alana L. Welm, Bryan E. Welm, Michael T. Lewis, Ramaswamy Govindan, Li Ding, Shunqiang Li, Meenhard Herlyn, Michael A. Davies, Jack A. Roth, Funda Meric-Bernstam, Carol J. Bult, Brandi Davis-Dusenbery, Dennis A. Dean, Jeffrey H. Chuang. A repository of PDX histology images for exploring spatial heterogeneity and cancer dynamics [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2022; 2022 Apr 8-13. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2022;82(12_Suppl):Abstract nr 1202.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/3b4501da22be82042fdbfb40628240b444058d0f" target='_blank'>Abstract 1202: A repository of PDX histology images for exploring spatial heterogeneity and cancer dynamics</a></td>
          <td>
            Brian S. White, X. Woo, Soner Koc, Todd B Sheridan, Steven B. Neuhauser, Akshat Savaliya, L. Dobrolecki, John D. Landua, Matthew H. Bailey, Maihi Fujita, K. Evans, B. Fang, J. Fujimoto, M. G. Raso, Shidan Wang, Guanghua Xiao, Yang Xie, S. Davies, R. Fields, R. J. Mashl, J. Mudd, Yeqing Chen, M. Xiao, Xiaowei Xu, M. Hollingshead, S. Jiwani, Yvonne A. Evrard, Tiffany A. Wallace, J. Moscow, J. Doroshow, N. Mitsiades, S. Kaochar, C. Pan, Moon S. Chen, L. Carvajal-Carmona, A. Welm, B. Welm, M. Lewis, R. Govindan, Liang Wen Ding, Shunqiang Li, M. Herlyn, M. Davies, J. Roth, F. Meric-Bernstam, C. Bult, Brandi N. Davis-Dusenbery, Dennis A. Dean, Jeffrey H. Chuang
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-15</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>123</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/695a1165f959dd359c41a0df1fcb36331e3da8f0" target='_blank'>Mapping spatial heterogeneity in the tumor microenvironment: a new era for digital pathology</a></td>
          <td>
            A. Heindl, Sidra Nawaz, Yinyin Yuan
          </td>
          <td>2015-01-19</td>
          <td>Laboratory Investigation</td>
          <td>193</td>
          <td>37</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Cancer is a complex cellular ecosystem where malignant cells coexist and interact with immune, stromal and other cells within the tumor microenvironment (TME). Recent technological advancements in spatially resolved multiplexed imaging at single-cell resolution have led to the generation of large-scale and high-dimensional datasets from biological specimens. This underscores the necessity for automated methodologies that can effectively characterize molecular, cellular and spatial properties of TMEs for various malignancies. This study introduces SpatialCells, an open-source software package designed for region-based exploratory analysis and comprehensive characterization of TMEs using multiplexed single-cell data. The source code and tutorials are available at https://semenovlab.github.io/SpatialCells. SpatialCells efficiently streamlines the automated extraction of features from multiplexed single-cell data and can process samples containing millions of cells. Thus, SpatialCells facilitates subsequent association analyses and machine learning predictions, making it an essential tool in advancing our understanding of tumor growth, invasion and metastasis.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/414804b3f4312094a18d6e4bf324b2596d2f1cca" target='_blank'>SpatialCells: automated profiling of tumor microenvironments with spatially resolved multiplexed single-cell data</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Wan, Z. Maliga, Boshen Yan, Tuulia Vallius, Yingxiao Shi, Sara Khattab, Crystal T. Chang, A. J. Nirmal, Kun-Hsing Yu, David Liu, C. G. Lian, Mia S. DeSimone, P. Sorger, Yevgeniy R. Semenov
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-27</td>
          <td>Briefings in Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Advances in sequencing and imaging technologies offer a unique opportunity to unravel cell heterogeneity and develop new immunotherapy strategies for cancer research. There is an urgent need for a resource that effectively integrates a vast amount of transcriptomic profiling data to comprehensively explore cancer tissue heterogeneity and the tumor microenvironment. In this context, we developed the Single-cell and Spatially-resolved Cancer Resources (SCAR) database, a combined tumor spatial and single-cell transcriptomic platform, which is freely accessible at http://8.142.154.29/SCAR2023 or http://scaratlas.com. SCAR contains spatial transcriptomic data from 21 tumor tissues and single-cell transcriptomic data from 11 301 352 cells encompassing 395 cancer subtypes and covering a wide variety of tissues, organoids, and cell lines. This resource offers diverse functional modules to address key cancer research questions at multiple levels, including the screening of tumor cell types, metabolic features, cell communication and gene expression patterns within the tumor microenvironment. Moreover, SCAR enables the analysis of biomarker expression patterns and cell developmental trajectories. SCAR also provides a comprehensive analysis of multi-dimensional datasets based on 34 state-of-the-art omics techniques, serving as an essential tool for in-depth mining and understanding of cell heterogeneity and spatial location. The implications of this resource extend to both cancer biology research and cancer immunotherapy development.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/2c95a0bb7c4ef2f29564926cf3863d1f28072419" target='_blank'>SCAR: Single-cell and Spatially-resolved Cancer Resources</a></td>
          <td>
            Yushan Deng, Peixin Chen, Jiedan Xiao, Mengrou Li, Jiayi Shen, Siying Qin, Tengfei Jia, Changxiao Li, Ashley Chang, Wensheng Zhang, Hebin Liu, Ruidong Xue, Ning Zhang, Xiangdong Wang, Li Huang, Dongsheng Chen
          </td>
          <td>2023-09-22</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>13</td>
          <td>14</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Cancer responses to drug treatment are highly heterogeneous. We postulate that spatial determinants in the tumour play a critical role in cancer therapy outcomes. Here, we will present two spatial transcriptomics studies on spatial responses to immunotherapy and chemotherapy.
 Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) are used to treat recurrent metastatic oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas (OPSCC). Unfortunately, less than 30% of patients benefit from this therapy. Thus, we performed spatial transcriptomics (ST) and in-situ multiprotein detection (PhenoCycler-Fusion) on tissue isolated from a patient diagnosed with metastatic OPSCC. The patient’s primary oral tumour responded to chemo-radio therapy, followed by nivolumab ICI. However, new soft pallet OPSCCs resurged. Subsequent pembrolizumab combined with lenvatinib (VEGFR inhibitor) treatment had an initial effect, butnew recurrent oral tumours re-emerged suggesting drug resistance. Using ST, we observed high expression of drug resistance genes such as SNAI2, SOX4 and NDRG1 consistent with the disease aggressive behaviour. Although, PD-1/PD-L1 expression was not observed, we identified 13 over-expressed druggable targets (i.e., EGFR, TF, VEGF) and >10 experimental targets. To rank each drug’s potential success, we measured the co-expression of each target ligand-receptor pair (L/R), reducing the candidates to 4 pathways (TF/TFRC> VEGFA/NRP1> PGF/NRP1> TGFB1/VASN>VEGFA/GPC1). Furthermore, TF/TFRC and VEGFA/NRP1 expected downstream genes were differentially over-expressed where positive LR signal was detected.
 Similarly, we used ST to define the cellular diversity within a sonic hedgehog (SHH) patient-derived model of Medulloblastoma (MB) and identified how cells specific to a transcriptional state or spatial location are pivotal in responses to treatment with the CDK4/6 inhibitor, Palbociclib. We distinguished neoplastic and non-neoplastic cells within tumours and from the surrounding cerebellar tissue, further refining pathological annotation. We identified a regional response to Palbociclib, with reduced proliferation and induced neuronal differentiation in both treated tumours. Additionally, we resolved at cellular resolution a distinct tumour “interface” where the tumour cells contacted neighbouring mouse brain tissue, consisting of abundant astrocytes and microglia, and continued to proliferate despite Palbociclib treatment.
 Our data highlight the power of a spatial multi-omics approach to characterise the response of a tumour to targeted therapy and provide further insights into the molecular and cellular basis underlying the response and resistance to cancer therapies.
 Citation Format: Xiao Tan, Andrew Causer, Tuan Quang Anh Vo, Ning Ma, Bassem Ben Cheikh, Laura Genovesi, Jazmina Gonzalez-Cruz, Quan Nguyen, Oliver Braubach. Applying spatial omics and computational integrative analyses to study drug responses and cancer immune cell interactions. [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2023; Part 1 (Regular and Invited Abstracts); 2023 Apr 14-19; Orlando, FL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2023;83(7_Suppl):Abstract nr 4703.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/c0ccd09492aa31da6168aa790f970a68d9757ca9" target='_blank'>Abstract 4703: Applying spatial omics and computational integrative analyses to study drug responses and cancer immune cell interactions</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiao Tan, Andrew Causer, Tuan Vo, Ning Ma, B. Cheikh, Laura A. Genovesi, J. Gonzalez-Cruz, Q. Nguyen, O. Braubach
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-04</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>24</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The emerging field of spatial transcriptomics is revolutionizing histopathology by simultaneously quantifying numerous RNA transcripts in situ across a tissue section. However, current technologies provide a broad survey of the spatial environment at the expense of low-complexity genomic data. We present the Picoception RNA platform, which produces deep genomic data from spatially targeted regions of a tissue section. This platform combines laser-capture microdissection (LCM) with comprehensive mRNA-sequencing, which reads all polyadenylated transcripts including pathogens and model organisms. From a single <10 µm section of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, Picoception RNA can profile an unlimited number of target regions smaller than 0.1 mm2, typically reading 200,000-1,000,000 unique molecules each with a dynamic range of more than 100:1.
 By isolating small areas of a tissue section, Picoception RNA allows deep molecular profiling of pure, distinct cellular regions such as tumor epithelial vs. normal or immune microenvironment. Combined with the depth of the gene-expression data, the cost-effectiveness of this technique enables statistically powerful analyses from large clinical cohorts. Furthermore, Picoception RNA’s compatibility with archived FFPE samples unlocks genomic signals from patients with known clinical outcomes, allowing the process of biomarker and pathway discovery to begin immediately without prospectively recruiting new subjects.
 We have applied this technique successfully in a wide range of applications, including oncology clinical trials for targeted therapy and immunotherapy, rare cancers, and cancers with limited biopsy material (including punch biopsies and core-needle biopsies), as well as rodent models. We have had consistent success profiling FFPE samples more than 20 years old.
 Picoception RNA complements previous spatial transcriptomics techniques, filling the need for deep genomic analysis at microscopic resolution using large-scale cohorts of FFPE samples.
 
 
 Joseph W. Foley, Wei K. Teo, Joshua K. Tay. Deep and scalable spatial transcriptomics for oncology research [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2025; Part 1 (Regular Abstracts); 2025 Apr 25-30; Chicago, IL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2025;85(8_Suppl_1):Abstract nr 6612.
">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/805a37328a992998b39a208dcc86f142807579b8" target='_blank'>Abstract 6612: Deep and scalable spatial transcriptomics for oncology research</a></td>
          <td>
            Joseph W. Foley, W. K. Teo, Joshua K. Tay
          </td>
          <td>2025-04-21</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>3</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="
 Cancer is a complex cellular ecosystem where malignant cells coexist and interact with immune, stromal, and other cells within the tumor microenvironment. Recent technological advancements in spatially resolved multiplexed imaging at single-cell resolution have led to the generation of large-scale and high-dimensional datasets from biological specimens. This underscores the necessity for automated methodologies that can effectively characterize the molecular, cellular, and spatial properties of tumor microenvironments for various malignancies.
 This study introduces SpatialCells, an open-source software package designed for region-based exploratory analysis and comprehensive characterization of tumor microenvironments using spatially resolved multiplexed single-cell data. We have provided detailed documents and tutorials at https://github.com/SemenovLab/SpatialCells.
 SpatialCells is featured by its capability to computationally define regions of interest based on any group of cells and subsequently conduct region-based analyses. SpatialCells incorporates several modules to facilitate its functionality, such as the spatial module and the measurements module. Our workflow starts with developing the spatial module, including functions to establish regional boundaries and check the region in which a cell is located. In particular, SpatialCells supports macro-region and micro-region analyses. In the macro-region analysis, users can employ SpatialCells to divide the whole tissue into several subregions, such as tumor, tumor border, stroma border, and stroma. In the micro-region analysis, SpatialCells identifies small regions within an area, such as within the tumor area, enabling a finer-grained understanding of the cellular landscape. The measurements module contains functions to extract the properties of tumor cells, immune cells, and tumor-immune cell interactions, such as multivariate tumor proliferation index, immune infiltration score, and tumor-immune cell distances. These properties can be assessed for the whole tissue or local regions. Importantly, SpatialCells can efficiently process datasets containing millions of cells.
 In summary, SpatialCells is a novel software solution for spatially analyzing the tumor microenvironment and automatically extracting quantitative features of cells using multiplexed imaging data in a streamlined fashion with the capacity to process samples containing millions of cells. Thus, SpatialCells facilitates subsequent association analyses and machine learning predictions at scale, making it an essential tool in advancing our understanding of tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis.
 Citation Format: Guihong Wan. SpatialCells: Automated profiling of tumor microenvironments with spatially resolved multiplexed single-cell data [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2024; Part 1 (Regular Abstracts); 2024 Apr 5-10; San Diego, CA. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2024;84(6_Suppl):Abstract nr 7409.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e4e61cd5e025dd48e93091a1d0701b6dc821b1b4" target='_blank'>Abstract 7409: SpatialCells: Automated profiling of tumor microenvironments with spatially resolved multiplexed single-cell data</a></td>
          <td>
            G. Wan
          </td>
          <td>2024-03-22</td>
          <td>Cancer Research</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>8</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="BaSISS was developed to create genetic subclone composition maps using whole-tumor sections.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/220ee56fb1b23981ec6fba02360e2e6bc99bf828" target='_blank'>BaSISS Generates Spatial Genomics Maps Using Whole-Tumor Sections.</a></td>
          <td>
            
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-18</td>
          <td>Cancer discovery</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/4080b7344f9512b4149b3257bf480608832dc040" target='_blank'>Protocol for spatial analysis of multiple markers across adjacent tissue sections captured by RNAscope using CellProfiler</a></td>
          <td>
            Katherine Copeland, Ariestya Indah Permata Sari, Justin Copeland, N. Jinawath, M. Shiao
          </td>
          <td>2025-06-20</td>
          <td>STAR Protocols</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>